In their last lectures we worked with larval migrations and we've created and then added two fields
to the blog posts table.
And also we rolled back some changes so make sure that your blog posts table looks like this if it doesn't
then you probably have some on the run migrations so go to the terminal and run peach bee artisan migrate
so you can see I have nothing to migrate which means My database is up to date I'd like to remind you
that there is the Vicki page I've created inside this link you can find it under this lecture with all
the comments and descriptions of what we'll be doing in this lecture.
So go check it out.
You can always find those commands and more explanations inside this link.
That's enough of the introductions.
Now let's talk business.
To interact with the database we'll be using the eloquent eloquent is a lot of the library cold or N
or a or M stands for object relationship mapping.
And it is a fancy name for a concept where you have a peach B class and a dispute B class corresponds
to a particular table and we'll be using this simple class to both fetch the data and store the data.
So Lara Val is using the Active Record model.
You can check it out in google and read more about this but you will soon find out how it works.
We have already created the blog posts table but we do not have a model to manage it yet.
So let's create a new model and you can do that using the artisan comment make model followed by the
model name let's run it now.
So go to the terminal and run peach bee artisan make model blog post model is created successfully now
close the terminal and models are stored by default inside the app.
So let's open this class and all models by default are part of the app namespace.
So this is our blog post model that extends the base model class.
It looks very simple but it is very powerful.
If you'd care to open this model class by left clicking it with the alt key you can see that it has
plenty of methods.
It is actually overwhelming.
So don't worry about that not.
I'm just showing you that it has a lot of possibilities now before we really use this model inside our
controllers or routes directly in the web BHP.
I'd like to show you a great tool which is included in rather a lot of old called Tinker.
So let's open the terminal again and run.
Peach bee artisan thinker.
So it lets you write and execute the BJP code as you would be inside BJP files but you can do it inside
terminal.
So for example you would be able to execute some random page called and see the result.
So you can see that I haven't seen the result of adding 4 to 4 and it's because apparently the libraries
used by tinker have some problems from the modern BJP seven point three.
So to fix that problem it's also described inside the Vicky.
We have to modify the peach bee unify the configuration file for the HP so it can be found inside the
sump.
Some files at DC peach bee or whatever you have it installed on Windows but look for it inside the ATC
folder or additionally you can find it by typing P P E grep peach P any so this will only probably work
if you have good bash on windows or on Mac.
You can safely type it and it shows whereas the configuration file.
So now I can go and open this file.
I already have it open sometime ago so I will just reopen it and find this PCR e settings and copy this
setting paste it into the peach any file and save the changes.
Now the Tinker should work again if you had any previous versions of BHP.
This problem might not affect you.
So only do this if you see this problem some.
Now let's rerun Tinker and see our example again.
Now we can see the result of adding four to four.
So we can also use that to play around with our brand new blog post model.
Let's see how.
Now let's see what we can do using Tinker.
So first let's try to fudge all the records from our blog posts table using our brand new model.
So we'll have to reference the model including the namespace and we'll use the static method all to
fetch all the records from the blog posts.
Table loops after running this we can see that there is error and it states that the table larval will
block underscore post doesn't exist.
And actually this is expected.
And it is because by convention Laurel assumes that the table name is the snake case plural model name.
I've included a couple of examples.
So for the blog post it will assume the table name is blog underscore posts or for the very long train.
It is very underscore along underscore trains.
So if we would like to use the blog posts table without underscore this is how our model should be called.
Fortunately we can solve this.
So Lavell has some properties defined inside models by default.
And one of those is the expected table name so we can add a protected table field and specify our table
name manually so do it like that modify the table to the blog posts say the changes
and now let's restart Tinker and fetch all the posts again.
So up blog post all and what we see here is the result of this query.
So when we are fetching multiple records the larva will return an instance of the collection object.
The collection object can be treated as a BHP array but it has some handy extras.
So basically you should be able to access the result of this like this assuming that there is at least
two records returned from this query.
Currently we have none so this just won't work.
And as you can see undefined offset so I've also included some information about collections inside
the document.
And you can check check that out but we'll also get to this in time so we should follow the lot of our
conventions.
And since we started with migrations and we created the table and then we didn't know what's the lot
of our convention fund for table names we can also generate new models along with the migration and
that's the recommended way.
I'd recommend doing that.
So you can do that by typing peach artisan make model.
Let's use the very long train example and you can either add migration suffix or just an
so let's now open it inside visual studio code and you can see we have a migration and now the table
name follows a lot of old conventions.
So we have this ready migration.
We want to use that.
So actually you can safely and they lead this migration and this very long train model.
I believe it's a good idea to follow the conventions of the tools that you are using.
So now let's use what we learned about migrations previously and modify the blog post stable to be blog
underscore post so we can generate a new migration for it.
So let's do that now type BJP artisan make migration and we can call it Change blog posts
table name and we can add the suffix table blog posts to add some boilerplate broad boilerplate code.
I've mentioned this and it's also included inside the Vicky.
So let's execute it.
Now and check what was generated for us so we can close this terminal window now and we have the boiler
plate.
So another thing I included inside the Vicky is how to rename the table name so you can use the schema
rename static method.
So let's just copy this and make this migration slide migration like this.
So we modify the blog posts to blog underscore posts and that down method which will just turn back
this change roll back.
It should be the opposite.
So we are changing their blog underscore posts to blog posts
OK.
Now let's run BHP artisan migrate and let's see our database table refresh it.
And now we follow the conventions so we can close this migration and comment out there so I will leave
this line of code.
So you know how to customize the table name.
But we should generally follow the conventions.
So that's why we've created another migration.
So that would be enough for this lecture in the next one will actually try to read some data from the
blog posts table and write some new rows into our database.